to it. Before I leave, I make sure Rues well stocked with food and matches. I even insist she take my sleeping bag, in case its not possible to rendezvous by nightfall. What about you? Wont you be cold? she asks. Not if I pick up another bag down by the lake, I say. You know, stealing isnt illegal here, I say with a grin. At the last minute, Rue decides to teach me her mockingjay signal, the one she gives to indicate the days work is done. It might not work. But if you hear the mockingjays singing it, youll know Im okay, only I cant get back right away. Are there many mockingjays here? I ask. Havent you seen them? Theyve got nests everywhere, she says. I have to admit I havent noticed. Okay, then. If all goes according to plan, Ill see you for dinner, I say. Unexpectedly, Rue throws her arms around me. I only hesitate a moment before I hug her back. You be careful, she says to me. You, too, I say. I turn and head back to the stream, feeling somehow worried. About Rue being killed, about Rue not being killed and the two of us being left for last, about leaving Rue alone, about leaving Prim alone back home. No, Prim has my mother and Gale and a baker who has promised she wont go hungry. Rue has only me. Once I reach the stream, I have only to follow it downhill to the place I initially picked it up after the tracker jacker attack. I have to be cautious as I move along the water though, because I find my thoughts preoccupied with unanswered questions, most of which concern Peeta. The cannon that fired early this morning, did that signify his death? If so, how did he die? At the hand of a Career? And was that in revenge for letting me live? I struggle again to remember that moment over Glimmers body, when he burst through the trees. But just the fact that he was sparkling leads me to doubt everything that happened. I must have been moving very slowly yesterday because I reach the shallow stretch where I took my bath in just a few hours. I stop to replenish my water and add a layer of mud to my backpack. It seems bent on reverting to orange no matter how many times I cover it. My proximity to the Careers camp sharpens my senses, and the closer I get to them, the more guarded I am, pausing frequently to listen for unnatural sounds, an arrow already fitted into the string of my bow. I dont see any other tributes, but I do notice some of the things Rue has mentioned.

Patches of the sweet berries. A bush with the leaves that healed my stings. Clusters of tracker jacker nests in the vicinity of the tree I was trapped in. And here

and there, the black-and-white flash of a mockingjay wing in the branches high over my head. When I reach the tree with the abandoned nest at the foot, I pause a moment, to gather my courage. Rue has given specific instructions on how to reach the best spying place near the lake from this point. Remember, I tell myself. Youre the hunter now, not them. I get a firmer grasp on my bow and go on. I make it to the copse Rue has told me about and again have to admire her cleverness. Its right at the edge of the wood, but the bushy foliage is so thick down low I can easily observe the Career camp without being spotted. Between us lies the flat expanse where the Games began. There are four tributes. The boy from District 1, Cato and the girl from District 2, and a scrawny, ashen-skinned boy who must be from District 3. He made almost no impression on me at all during our time in the Capitol. I can remember almost nothing about him, not his costume, not his training score, not his interview. Even now, as he sits there fiddling with some kind of plastic box, hes easily ignored in the presence of his large and domineering companions. But he must be of some value or they wouldnt have bothered to let him live. Still, seeing him only adds to my sense of unease over why the Careers would possibly leave him as a guard, why they have allowed him to live at all. All four tributes seem to still be recovering from the tracker jacker attack. Even from here, I can see the large swollen lumps on their bodies. They must not have had the sense to remove the stingers, or if they did, not known about the leaves that healed them. Apparently, whatever medicines they found in the Cornucopia have been ineffective. The Cornucopia sits in its original position, but its insides have been picked clean. Most of the supplies, held in crates, burlap sacks, and plastic bins, are piled neatly in a pyramid in what seems a questionable distance from the camp. Others are sprinkled around the perimeter of the pyramid, almost mimicking the layout of supplies around the Cornucopia at the onset of the Games. A canopy of netting that, aside from discouraging birds, seems to be useless shelters the pyramid itself. The whole setup is completely perplexing. The distance, the netting, and the presence of the boy from District 3. One things for sure, destroying those supplies is not going to be as simple as it looks. Some other factor is at play here, and Id better stay put until I figure out what it is. My guess is the pyramid is booby-trapped in some manner. I think of concealed pits, descending nets, a thread that when broken sends a poisonous dart into your heart. Really, the

possibilities are endless. While I am mulling over my options, I hear Cato shout out. Hes pointing up to the woods, far beyond me, and without turning I know

that Rue must have set the first campfire. Wed made sure to gather enough green wood to make the smoke noticeable. The Careers begin to arm themselves at once. An argument breaks out. Its loud enough for me to hear that it concerns whether or not the boy from District 3 should stay or accompany them. Hes coming. We need him in the woods, and his jobs done here anyway. No one can touch those supplies, says Cato. What about Lover Boy? says the boy from District 1. I keep telling you, forget about him. I know where I cut him. Its a miracle he hasnt bled to death yet. At any rate, hes in no shape to raid us, says Cato. So Peeta is out there in the woods, wounded badly. But I am still in the dark on what motivated him to betray the Careers. Come on, says Cato. He thrusts a spear into the hands of the boy from District 3, and they head off in the direction of the fire. The last thing I hear as they enter the woods is Cato saying, When we find her, I kill her in my own way, and no one interferes. Somehow I dont think hes talking about Rue. She didnt drop a nest of acker jackers on him. I stay put for a half an hour or so, trying to figure out what to do about the supplies. The one advantage I have with the bow and arrow is distance. I could send a flaming arrow into the pyramid easily enough Im a good enough shot to get it through those openings in the net but theres no guarantee it would catch. More likely itd just burn itself out and then what? Id have achieved nothing and given them far too much information about myself. That I was here, that I have an accomplice, that I can use the bow and arrow with accuracy. Theres no alternative. Im going to have to get in closer and see if I cant discover what exactly protects the supplies. In fact, Im just about to reveal myself when a movement catches my eye. Several hundred yards to my right, I see someone emerge from the woods. For a second, I think its Rue, but then I recognize Foxface shes the one we couldnt remember this morning creeping out onto the plain. When she decides its safe, she runs for the pyramid, with quick, small steps. Just before she reaches the circle of supplies that have been littered around the pyramid, she stops, searches the ground, and carefully places her feet on a spot. Then she begins to approach the pyramid with strange little hops, sometimes landing on one foot, teetering slightly,

sometimes risking a few steps. At one point, she launches up in the air, over a small barrel and lands poised on her tiptoes. But she overshot slightly, and her momentum throws her forward. I hear her give a sharp squeal as her hands hit the ground, but nothing happens. In a moment, shes regained her feet and continues until she has reached the bulk of the supplies. So, Im right about the booby trap, but its clearly more complex than I had imagined. I was right about the girl, too. How wily is she to have discovered this path into the food and to be able to replicate it so neatly? She fills her

pack, taking a few items from a variety of containers, crackers from a crate, a handful of apples from a burlap sack that hangs suspended from a rope off the side of a bin. But only a handful from each, not enough to tip off that the food is missing. Not enough to cause suspicion. And then shes doing her odd little dance back out of the circle and scampering into the woods again, safe and sound. I realize Im grinding my teeth in frustration. Foxface has confirmed what Id already guessed. But what sort of trap have they laid that requires such dexterity? Has so many trigger points? Why did she squeal so as her hands made contact with the earth? Youd have thought . . . And slowly it begins to dawn on me . . . Youd have thought the very ground was going to explode. Its mined, I whisper. That explains everything. The Careers willingness to leave their supplies, Foxfaces reaction, the involvement of the boy from District 3, where they have the factories, where they make televisions and automobiles and explosives. But where did he get them? In the supplies? Thats not the sort of weapon the Gamemakers usually provide, given that they like to see the tributes draw blood personally. I slip out of the bushes and cross to one of the round metal plates that lifted the tributes into the arena. The ground around it has been dug up and patted back down. The land mines were disabled after the sixty seconds we stood on the plates, but the boy from District 3 must have managed to reactivate them. Ive never seen anyone in the Games do that. I bet it came as a shock even to the Gamemakers. Well, hurray for the boy from District 3 for putting one over on them, but what am I supposed to do now? Obviously, I cant go strolling into that mess without blowing myself sky-high. As for sending in a burning arrow, thats more laughable than ever. The mines are set off by pressure. It doesnt have to be a lot, either. One year, a girl

dropped her token, a small wooden ball, while she was at her plate, and they literally had to scrape bits of her off the ground. My arms pretty good, I might be able to chuck some rocks in there and set off what? Maybe one mine? That could start a chain reaction. Or could it? Would the boy from District 3 have placed the mines in such a way that a single mine would not disturb the others? Thereby protecting the supplies but ensuring the death of the invader. Even if I only blew up one mine, Id draw the Careers back down on me for sure. And anyway, what am I thinking? Theres that net, clearly strung to deflect any such attack. Besides, what Id really need is to throw about thirty rocks in there at once, setting off a big chain reaction, demolishing the whole lot. I glance back up at the woods. The smoke from Rues second fire is wafting toward the sky. By now, the Careers have probably begun to suspect some sort of trick. Time is running out. There is a solution to this, I know there is, if I can only focus hard enough. I stare at the pyramid, the

bins, the crates, too heavy to topple over with an arrow. Maybe one contains cooking oil, and the burning arrow idea is reviving when I realize I could end uplosing all twelve of my arrows and not get a direct hit on an oil bin, since Id just be guessing. Im genuinely thinking of trying to re-create Foxfaces trip up to the pyramid in hopes of finding a new means of destruction when my eyes light on the burlap bag of apples. I could sever the rope in one shot, didnt I do as much in the Training Center? Its a big bag, but it still might only be good for one explosion. If only I could free the apples themselves . . . I know what to do. I move into range and give myself three arrows to get the job done. I place my feet carefully, block out the rest of the world as I take meticulous aim, The first arrow tears through the side of the bag near the top, leaving a split in the burlap. The second widens it to a gaping hole. I can see the first apple teetering when I let the third arrow go, catching the torn flap of burlap and ripping it from the bag. For a moment, everything seems frozen in time. Then the apples spill to the ground and Im blown backward into the air.

17.

The impact with the hard-packed earth of the plain knocks the wind out of me.

My backpack does little to soften the blow. Fortunately my quiver has caught in the crook of my elbow, sparing both itself and my shoulder, and my bow is locked in my grasp. The ground still shakes with explosions. I cant hear them. I cant hear anything at the moment. But the apples must have set off enough mines, causing debris to activate the others. I manage to shield my face with my arms as shattered bits of matter, some of it burning, rain down around me. An acrid smoke fills the air, which is not the best remedy for someone trying to regain the ability to breathe. After about a minute, the ground stops vibrating. I roll on my side and allow myself a moment of satisfaction the sight of the smoldering wreckage that was recently the pyramid. The Careers arent likely to salvage anything out of that. Id better get out of here, I think. Theyll be making a beeline for the place. But once Im on my feet, I realize escape may not be so simple. Im dizzy. Not the slightly wobbly kind, but the kind that sends the trees swooping around you and causes the earth to move in waves under your feet. I take a few steps and somehow wind up on my hands and knees. I wait a few minutes to let it pass, but it doesnt. Panic begins to set in. I cant stay here. Flight is essential. But I can neither walk nor hear. I place a hand to my left ear, the

one that was turned toward the blast, and it comes away bloody. Have I gone deaf from the explosion? The idea frightens me. I rely as much on my ears as my eyes as a hunter, maybe more at times. But I cant let my fear show. Absolutely, positively, I am live on every screen in Panem. No blood trails, I tell myself, and manage to pull my hood up over my head, tie the cord under my chin with uncooperative

fingers. That should help soak up the blood. I cant walk, but can I crawl? I move forward tentatively. Yes, if I go very slowly, I can crawl. Most of the woods will offer insufficient cover. My only hope is to make it back to Rues copse and conceal myself in greenery. I cant get caught out here on my hands and knees in the open. Not only will I face death, its sure to be a long and painful one at Catos hand. The thought of Prim having to watch that keeps me doggedly inching my way toward the hideout. Another blast knocks me flat on my face. A stray mine, set off by some collapsing crate. This happens twice more. Im reminded of those last few kernels that burst when Prim and I pop corn over the fire at home. To say I make it in the nick of time is an understatement. I have literally just dragged myself into the tangle of hushes at

the base of the trees when theres Cato, barreling onto the plain, soon followed by his companions. His rage is so extreme it might be comical so people really do tear out their hair and beat the ground with their fists if I didnt know that it was aimed at me, at what I have done to him. Add to that my proximity, my inability to run or defend myself, and in fact, the whole thing has me terrified. Im glad my hiding place makes it impossible for the cameras to get a close shot of me because Im biting my nails like theres no tomorrow. Gnawing off the last bits of nail polish, trying to keep my teeth from chattering. The boy from District 3 throws stones into the ruins and must have declared all the mines activated because the Careers are approaching the wreckage. Cato has finished the first phase of his tantrum and takes out his anger on the smoking remains by kicking open various containers. The other tributes are poking around in the mess, looking for anything to salvage, but theres nothing. The boy from District 3 has done his job too well. This idea must occur to Cato, too, because he turns on the boy and appears to be shouting at him. The boy from District 3 only has time to turn and run before Cato catches him in a headlock from behind. I can see the muscles ripple in Catos arms as he sharply jerks the boys head to the side.

Its that quick. The death of the boy from District 3. The other two Careers seem to be trying to calm Cato down. I can tell he wants to return to the woods, but they keep pointing at the sky, which puzzles me until I realize, Of course. They think whoever set off the explosions is dead. They dont know about the arrows and the apples. They assume the booby trap was faulty, but that the tribute who blew up the supplies was killed doing it. If there was a cannon shot, it could have been easily lost in the subsequent explosions. The shattered remains of the thief removed by hovercraft. They retire to the far side of the lake to allow the Gamemakers to retrieve the body of the boy from District 3. And they wait. I suppose a cannon goes off. A hovercraft appears and takes the dead boy. The sun dips below

the horizon. Night falls. Up in the sky, I see the seal and know the anthem must have begun. A moment of darkness. They show the boy from District 3. They show the boy from District 10, who must have died this morning. Then the seal reappears. So, now they know. The bomber survived. In the seals light, I can see Cato and the girl from District 2 put on their night-vision glasses. The boy from District 1 ignites a

tree branch for a torch, illuminating the grim determination on all their faces. The Careers stride back into the woods to hunt. The dizziness has subsided and while my left ear is still deafened, I can hear a ringing in my right, which seems a good sign. Theres no point in leaving my hiding place, though. Im about as safe as I can be, here at the crime scene. They probably think the bomber has a two- or three-hour lead on them. Still its a long time before I risk moving. The first thing I do is dig out my own glasses and put them on, which relaxes me a little, to have at least one of my hunters senses working. I drink some water and wash the blood from my ear. Fearing the smell of meat will draw unwanted predators fresh blood is bad enough I make a good meal out of the greens and roots and berries Rue and I gathered today. Where is my little ally? Did she make it back to the rendezvous point? Is she worried about me? At least, the sky has shown were both alive. I run through the surviving tributes on my fingers. The boy from 1, both from 2, Foxface, both from 11 and 12. Just eight of us. The betting must be getting really hot in the Capitol. Theyll be doing special features on each of us now. Probably interviewing our friends and families. Its been a long time since a tribute from District 12 made it into the top eight. And now there are two

of us. Although from what Cato said, Peetas on his way out. Not that Cato is the final word on anything. Didnt he just lose his entire stash of supplies? Let the Seventy-fourth Hunger Games begin, Cato, I think. Let them begin for real. A cold breeze has sprung up. I reach for my sleeping bag before I remember I left it with Rue. I was supposed to pick up another one, but what with the mines and all, I forgot. I begin to shiver. Since roosting overnight in a tree isnt sensible anyway, I scoop out a hollow under the bushes and cover myself with leaves and pine needles. Im still freezing. I lay my sheet of plastic over my upper body and position my backpack to block the wind. Its a little better. I begin to have more sympathy for the girl from District 8 that lit the fire that first night. But now its me who needs to grit my teeth and tough it out until morning. More leaves, more pine needles. I pull my arms inside my jacket and tuck my knees up to my chest. Somehow, I drift off to sleep. When I open my eyes, the world looks slightly fractured, and it takes a minute to realize that the sun must be well up and the glasses fragmenting my vision. As I sit up and remove them, I hear a laugh somewhere near


the lake and freeze. The laughs distorted, but the fact that it registered at all means I must be regaining my hearing. Yes, my right ear can hear again, although its still ringing. As for my left ear, well, at least the bleeding has stopped. I peer through the bushes, afraid the Careers have returned, trapping me here for an indefinite time. No, its Foxface, standing in the rubble of the pyramid and laughing. Shes smarter than the Careers, actually finding a few useful items in the ashes. A metal pot. A knife blade. Im perplexed by her amusement until I realize that with the Careers stores eliminated, she might actually stand a chance. Just like the rest of us. It crosses my mind to reveal myself and enlist her as a second ally against that pack. But I rule it out. Theres something about that sly grin that makes me sure that befriending Foxface would ultimately get me a knife in the back. With that in mind, this might be an excellent time to shoot her. But shes heard something, not me, because her head turns away, toward the drop-off, and she sprints for the woods. I wait. No one, nothing shows up. Still, if Foxface thought it was dangerous, maybe its time for me to get out of here, too. Besides, Im eager to tell Rue about the pyramid. Since Ive no idea where the Careers are, the route back by the stream seems as good as any. I

hurry, loaded bow in one hand, a hunk of cold groosling in the other, because Im famished now, and not just for leaves and berries but for the fat and protein in the meat. The trip to the stream is uneventful. Once there, I refill my water and wash, taking particular care with my injured ear. Then I travel uphill using the stream as a guide. At one point, I find boot prints in the mud along the bank. The Careers have been here, but not for a while. The prints are deep because they were made in soft mud, but now theyre nearly dry in the hot sun. I havent been careful enough about my own tracks, counting on a light tread and the pine needles to conceal my prints. Now I strip off my boots and socks and go barefoot up the bed of the stream. The cool water has an invigorating effect on my body, my spirits. I shoot two fish, easy pickings in this slow-moving stream, and go ahead and eat one raw even though Ive just had the groosling. The second Ill save for Rue. Gradually, subtly, the ringing in my right ear diminishes until its gone entirely. I find myself pawing at my left ear periodically, trying to clean away whatever deadens its ability to collect sounds. If theres improvement, its undetectable. I cant adjust to deafness in the ear. It makes me feel off-balanced and defenseless to my left. Blind even. My head keeps turning to

the injured side, as my right ear tries to compensate for the wall of nothingness where yesterday there was a constant flow of information. The more time that passes, the less hopeful I am that this is an injury that will heal. When I reach the site of our first meeting, I feel certain its been

undisturbed. Theres no sign of Rue, not on the ground or in the trees. This is odd. By now she should have returned, as its midday. Undoubtedly, she spent the night in a tree somewhere. What else could she do with no light and the Careers with their night-vision glasses tramping around the woods. And the third fire she was supposed to set although I forgot to check for it last night was the farthest from our site of all. Shes probably just being cautious about making her way back. I wish shed hurry, because I dont want to hang around here too long. I want to spend the afternoon traveling to higher ground, hunting as we go. But theres nothing really for me to do but wait. I wash the blood out of my jacket and hair and clean my ever-growing list of wounds. The burns are much better but I use a bit of medicine on them anyway. The main thing to worry about now is keeping out infection. I go ahead andeat the second fish. It isnt going to last long in this hot sun, but it should be easy enough to spear a few more for Rue. If she would just show up. Feeling too vulnerable on the ground with my lopsided hearing, I scale a tree to wait. If the Careers show up, this will be a fine place to shoot them from. The sun moves slowly. I do things to pass the time. Chew leaves and apply them to my stings that are deflated but still tender. Comb through my damp hair with my fingers and braid it. Lace my boots back up. Check over my bow and remaining nine arrows. Test my left ear repeatedly for signs of life by rustling a leaf near it, but without good results. Despite the groosling and the fish, my stomachs growling, and I know Im going to have what we call a hollow day back in District 12. Thats a day where no matter what you put in your belly, its never enough. Having nothing to do but sit in a tree makes it worse, so I decide to give into it. After all, Ive lost a lot of weight in the arena, I need some extra calories. And having the bow and arrows makes me far more confident about my future prospects. I slowly peel and eat a handful of nuts. My last cracker. The groosling neck. Thats good because it takes time to pick clean. Finally, a groosling wing and the bird is history. But its a hollow day, and even with all that I start daydreaming about food.

Particularly the decadent dishes served in the Capitol. The chicken in creamy orange sauce. The cakes and pudding. Bread with butter. Noodles in green sauce. The lamb and dried plum stew. I suck on a few mint leaves and tell myself to get over it. Mint is good because we drink mint tea after supper often, so it tricks my stomach into thinking eating time is over. Sort of. Dangling up in the tree, with the sun warming me, a mouthful of mint, my bow and arrows at hand . . . This is the most relaxed Ive been since Ive entered the arena. If only Rue would show up, and we could clear out. As the shadows grow, so does my restlessness. By late afternoon, Ive resolved to go looking for her. I can at least visit the spot

where she set the third fire and see if there are any clues to her whereabouts. Before I go, I scatter a few mint leaves around our old campfire. Since we gathered these some distance away, Rue will understand Ive been here, while theyll mean nothing to the Careers. In less than an hour, Im at the place where we agreed to have the third fire and I know something has gone amiss. The wood has been neatly arranged, expertly interspersed with tinder, but it has never been lit. Rue set up thefire but never made it back here. Somewhere between the second column of smoke I spied before I blew up the supplies and this point, she ran into trouble. I have to remind myself shes still alive. Or is she? Could the cannon shot announcing her death have come in the wee hours of the morning when even my good ear was too broken to pick it up? Will she appear in the sky tonight? No, I refuse to believe it. There could be a hundred other explanations. She could have lost her way. Run into a pack of predators or another tribute, like Thresh, and had to hide. Whatever happened, Im almost certain shes stuck out there, somewhere between the second fire and the unlit one at my feet. Something is keeping her up a tree. I think Ill go hunt it down. Its a relief to be doing something after sitting around all afternoon. I creep silently through the shadows, letting them conceal me. But nothing seems suspicious. Theres no sign of any kind of struggle, no disruption of the needles on the ground. Ive stopped for just a moment when I hear it. I have to cock my head around to the side to be sure, but there it is again. Rues four-note tune coming out of a mockingjays mouth. The one that means shes all right. I grin and move in the direction of the bird. Another just a short distance ahead, picks up on the handful of notes. Rue has been
singing to them, and recently. Otherwise theyd have taken up some other song. My eyes lift up into the trees, searching for a sign of her. I swallow and sing softly back, hoping shell know its safe to join me. A mockingjay repeats the melody to me. And thats when I hear the scream. Its a childs scream, a young girls scream, theres no one in the arena capable of making that sound except Rue. And now Im running, knowing this may be a trap, knowing the three Careers may be poised to attack me, but I cant help myself. Theres another high-pitched cry, this time my name. Katniss! Katniss! Rue! I shout back, so she knows Im near. So, they know Im near, and hopefully the girl who has attacked them with tracker jackers and gotten an eleven they still cant explain will be enough to pull their attention away from her. Rue! Im coming! When I break into the clearing, shes on the ground, hopelessly entangled in a net. She just has time to reach her hand through the mesh and say my name before the spear enters her body.

18.

The boy from District 1 dies before he can pull out the spear. My arrow drives deeply into the center of his neck. He falls to his knees and

halves the brief remainder of his life by yanking out the arrow and drowning in his own blood. Im reloaded, shifting my aim from side to side, while I shout at Rue, Are there more? Are there more? She has to say no several times before I hear it. Rue has rolled to her side, her body curved in and around the spear. I shove the boy away from her and pull out my knife, freeing her from the net. One look at the wound and I know its far beyond my capacity to heal, beyond anyones probably. The spearhead is buried up to the shaft in her stomach. I crouch before her, staring helplessly at the embedded weapon. Theres no point in comforting words, in telling her shell be all right. Shes no fool. Her hand reaches out and I clutch it like a lifeline. As if its me whos dying instead of Rue. You blew up the food? she whispers. Every last bit, I say. You have to win, she says. Im going to. Going to win for both of us now, I promise. I hear a cannon and look up. It must be for the boy from District 1. Dont go. Rue tightens her grip on my hand. Course not. Staying right here, I say. I move in closer

to her, pulling her head onto my lap. I gently brush the dark, thick hair back behind her ear. Sing, she says, but I barely catch the word. Sing? I think. Sing what? I do know a few songs. Believe it or not, there was once music in my house, too. Music I helped make. My father pulled me in with that remarkable voice but I havent sung much since he died. Except when Prim is very sick. Then I sing her the same songs she liked as a baby. Sing. My throat is tight with tears, hoarse from smoke and fatigue. But if this is Prims, I mean, Rues last request, I have to at least try. The song that comes to me is a simple lullaby, one we sing fretful, hungry babies to sleep with, Its old, very old I think. Made up long ago in our hills. What my music teacher calls a mountain air. But the words are easy and soothing, promising tomorrow will be more hopeful than this awful piece of time we call today. I give a small cough, swallow hard, and begin:

Deep in the meadow, under the willowA bed of grass, a soft green pillowLay down your head, and close your sleepy eyesAnd when again they open, the sun will rise.Here its safe, here its warmHere the daisies guard you from every harmHere your dreams are sweet and tomorrow brings them trueHere is the place where I love you.

Rues eyes have fluttered shut. Her chest moves but only slightly. My throat releases the tears and they slide down my cheeks. But I have to finish the song for her.

Deep in the meadow, hidden far awayA cloak of leaves, a moonbeam rayForget your woes and let your troubles layAnd when again its morning, theyll wash away.

Here its safe, here its warmHere the daisies guard you from every harm

The final lines are barely audible.

Here your dreams are sweet and tomorrow brings them trueHere is the place where I love you.

Everythings still and quiet. Then, almost eerily, the mockingjays take up my song. For a moment, I sit there, watching my tears drip down on her face. Rues cannon fires. I lean forward and press my lips against her temple. Slowly, as if not to wake her, I lay her head back on the ground and release her hand. Theyll want me to clear out now. So they can collect the bodies. And theres nothing to stay for. I roll the boy from District 1 onto his face and take his pack, retrieve the arrow that ended his life. I cut Rues pack from her back as well, knowing shed want me to have it but leave the spear in her stomach. Weapons in bodies will be transported to the hovercraft. Ive no use for a spear, so the sooner its gone from the arena the better. I cant stop looking at Rue, smaller than ever, a baby animal curled up in a nest of netting. I cant bring myself to leave her like this. Past harm, but seeming utterly defenseless. To hate the boy from District 1, who also appears so vulnerable in death, seems inadequate. Its the Capitol I hate, for doing this to all of us. Gales voice is in my head. His ravings against the Capitol no longer pointless, no longer to be ignored. Rues death has forced me to confront my own fury against the cruelty, the injustice they inflict upon us. But here, even more strongly than at home, I feel my impotence.

Theres no way to take revenge on the Capitol. Is there? Then I remember Peetas words on the roof. Only I keep wishing I could think of a way to . . . To show the Capital they dont own me. That Im more than just a piece in their Games. And for the first time, I understand what he means. I want to do something, right here, right now, to shame them, to make them accountable, to show the Capitol that whatever they do or force us to do there is a part of every tribute they cant own. That Rue was more than a piece in their Games. And so am I. A few steps into the woods grows a bank of wildflowers. Perhaps they are really weeds of some sort, but they have blossoms in beautiful shades of violet and yellow and white. I gather up an armful and come back to Rues side. Slowly, one stem at a time, I decorate her body in the flowers. Covering the ugly wound. Wreathing her face. Weaving her hair with bright colors. Theyll have to show it. Or, even if they choose to turn the cameras elsewhere at this moment, theyll have to bring them back when they collect the bodies and everyone will see her then and know I did it. I step back and take a last look at Rue. She could really be asleep in that meadow after all. Bye, Rue, I whisper. I press the three middle fingers of my left hand against my lips and hold them out in her

direction. Then I walk away without looking back. The birds fall silent. Somewhere, a mockingjay gives the warning whistle that precedes the hovercraft. I dont know how it knows. It must hear

things that humans cant. I pause, my eyes focused on whats ahead, not whats happening behind me. It doesnt take long, then the general birdsong begins again and I know shes gone. Another mockingjay, a young one by the look of it, lands on a branch before me and bursts out Rues melody. My song, the hovercraft, were too unfamiliar for this novice to pick up, but it has mastered her handful of notes. The ones that mean shes safe. Good and safe, I say as I pass under its branch. We dont have to worry about her now. Good and safe. Ive no idea where to go. The brief sense of home I had that one night with Rue has vanished. My feet wander this way and that until sunset. Im not afraid, not even watchful. Which makes me an easy target. Except Id kill anyone I met on sight. Without emotion or the slightest tremor in my hands. My hatred of the Capitol has not lessened my hatred of my competitors in the least. Especially the Careers. They, at least, can be made to pay for Rues death. No one materializes though. There arent many of us left and its a big arena. Soon theyll be pulling out some other device to force us together. But theres been enough gore today. Perhaps well even get to sleep. Im about to haul my packs into a tree to make camp when a silver parachute floats down and lands in front of me. A gift from a sponsor. But why now? Ive been in fairly good shape with supplies. Maybe Haymitchs noticed my despondency and is trying to cheer me up a bit. Or could it be something to help my ear? I open the parachute and find a small loaf of bread Its not the fine white Capitol stuff. Its made of dark ration grain and shaped in a crescent. Sprinkled with seeds. I flash back to Peetas lesson on the various district breads in the Training Center. This bread came from District 11. I cautiously lift the still warm loaf. What must it have cost the people of District 11 who cant even feed themselves? How many wouldve had to do without to scrape up a coin to put in the collection for this one loaf? It had been meant for Rue, surely. But instead of pulling the gift when she died, theyd authorized Haymitch to give it to me. As a thank-you? Or because, like me, they dont like to let debts go unpaid? For whatever reason, this is a first. A district gift to a tribute whos not your own. I lift my face and step into the last falling rays of

sunlight. My thanks to the people of District Eleven, I say. I want them to know I know where it came from. That the full value of their gift has been recognized. I climb dangerously high into a tree, not for safety but to get as far away from today as I can. My sleeping bag is rolled neatly in Rues pack. Tomorrow Ill sort through the supplies. Tomorrow Ill make a new plan. But tonight, all I can do is strap myself in and take tiny bites of the bread. Its good. It tastes of home. Soon the seals in the sky, the anthem plays in my right ear. I see the boy from District 1, Rue. Thats all for tonight. Six of us left, I think. Only six. With

the bread still locked in my hands, I fall asleep at once. Sometimes when things are particularly bad, my brain will give me a happy dream. A visit with my father in the woods. An hour of sunlight and cake with Prim. Tonight it sends me Rue, still decked in her flowers, perched in a high sea of trees, trying to teach me to talk to the mockingjays. I see no sign of her wounds, no blood, just a bright, laughing girl. She sings songs Ive never heard in a clear, melodic voice. On and on. Through the night. Theres a drowsy in-between period when I can hear the last few strains of her music although shes lost in the leaves. When I fully awaken, Im momentarily comforted. I try to hold on to the peaceful feeling of the dream, but it quickly slips away, leaving me sadder and lonelier than ever. Heaviness infuses my whole body, as if theres liquid lead in my veins. Ive lost the will to do the simplest tasks, to do anything but lie here, staring unblinkingly through the canopy of leaves. For several hours, I remain motionless. As usual, its the thought of Prims anxious face as she watches me on the screens back home that breaks me from my lethargy. I give myself a series of simple commands to follow, like Now you have to sit up, Katniss. Now you have to drink water, Katniss. I act on the orders with slow, robotic motions. Now you have to sort the packs, Katniss. Rues pack holds my sleeping bag, her nearly empty water skin, a handful of nuts and roots, a bit of rabbit, her extra socks, and her slingshot. The boy from District 1 has several knives, two spare spearheads, a flashlight, a small leather pouch, a first-aid kit, a full bottle of water, and a pack of dried fruit. A pack of dried fruit! Out of all he might have chosen from. To me, this is a sign of extreme arrogance. Why bother to carry food when you have such a bounty back at camp? When you will kill your enemies so quickly youll be home before youre

hungry? I can only hope the other Careers traveled so lightly when it came to food and now find themselves with nothing. Speaking of which, my own supply is running low. I finish off the loaf from District 11 and the last of the rabbit. How quickly the food disappears. All I have left are Rues roots and nuts, the boys dried fruit, and one strip of beef. Now you have to hunt, Katniss, I tell myself. I obediently consolidate the supplies I want into my pack. After I climb down the tree, I conceal the boys knives and spearheads in a pile of rocks so that no one else can use them. Ive lost my bearings what with all the wandering around I did yesterday evening, but I try and head back in the general direction of the stream. I know Im on course when I come across Rues third, unlit fire. Shortly thereafter, I discover a flock of grooslings perched in the trees and take out three before they know what hit them. I return to Rues signal fire and start it up, not caring about the excessive smoke. Where are you, Cato? I think as I roast the birds and Rues roots. Im

waiting right here. Who knows where the Careers are now? Either too far to reach me or too sure this is a trick or ... Is it possible? Too scared of me? They know I have the bow and arrows, of course, Cato saw me take them from Glimmers body, but have they put two and two together yet? Figured out I blew up the supplies and killed their fellow Career? Possibly they think Thresh did this. Wouldnt he be more likely to revenge Rues death than I would? Being from the same district? Not that he ever took any interest in her. And what about Foxface? Did she hang around to watch me blow up the supplies? No. When I caught her laughing in the ashes the next morning, it was as if someone had given her a lovely surprise. I doubt they think Peeta has lit this signal fire. Catos sure hes as good as dead. I find myself wishing I could tell Peeta about the flowers I put on Rue. That I now understand what he was trying to say on the roof. Perhaps if he wins the Games, hell see me on victors night, when they replay the highlights of the Games on a screen over the stage where we did our interviews. The winner sits in a place of honor on the platform, surrounded by their support crew. But I told Rue Id be there. For both of us. And somehow that seems even more important than the vow I gave Prim. I really think I stand a chance of doing it now.


Winning. Its not just having the arrows or outsmarting the Careers a few times, although those things help. Something happened when I was holding Rues hand, watching the life drain out of her. Now I am determined to revenge her, to make her loss unforgettable, and I can only do that by winning and thereby making myself unforgettable. I overcook the birds hoping someone will show up to shoot, but no one does. Maybe the other tributes are out there beating one another senseless. Which would be fine, Ever since the bloodbath, Ive been featured on screens most than I care. Eventually, I wrap up my food and go back to the stream to replenish my water and gather some. But the heaviness from the morning drapes back over me and even though its only early evening, I climb a tree and settle in for the night. My brain begins to replay the events from yesterday. I keep seeing Rue speared, my arrow piercing the boys neck. I dont know why I should even care about the boy. Then I realize . . . He was my first kill. Along with other statistics they report to help people place their bets, every tribute has a list of kills. I guess technically Id get credited for Glimmer and the girl from District 4, too, for dumping that nest on them. But the boy from District 1 was the first person I knew would die because of my actions.Numerous animals have lost their lives at my hands, but only one human. I hear Gale saying, How different can it be, really? Amazingly similar in the execution. A bow pulled, an arrow shot. Entirely different in the aftermath. I killed a boy whose name I dont even know. Somewhere his family is weeping for him. His friends

call for my blood. Maybe he had a girlfriend who really believed he would come back . . . But then I think of Rues still body and Im able to banish the boy from my mind. At least, for now. Its been an uneventful day according to the sky. No deaths. I wonder how long well get until the next catastrophe drives us back together. If its going to be tonight, I want to get some sleep first. I cover my good ear to block out the strains of the anthem, but then I hear the trumpets and sit straight up in anticipation. For the most part, the only communication the tributes get from outside the arena is the nightly death toll. But occasionally, there will be trumpets followed by an announcement. Usually, this will be a call to a feast. When food is scarce, the Gamemakers will invite the players to a banquet, somewhere known to all like the Cornucopia, as an inducement to gather and fight. Sometimes there is a feast

and sometimes theres nothing but a loaf of stale bread for the tributes to compete for. I wouldnt go in for the food, but this could be an ideal time to take out a few competitors. Claudius Templesmiths voice booms down from overhead, congratulating the six of us who remain. But he is not inviting us to a feast. Hes saying something very confusing. Theres been a rule change in the Games. A rule change! That in itself is mind bending since we dont really have any rules to speak of except dont step off your circle for sixty seconds and the unspoken rule about not eating one another. Under the new rule, both tributes from the same district will be declared winners if they are the last two alive. Claudius pauses, as if he knows were not getting it, and repeats the change again. The news sinks in. Two tributes can win this year. If theyre from the same district. Both can live. Both of us can live. Before I can stop myself, I call out Peetas name.

PART III"THE VICTOR"

19.I clap my hands over my mouth, but the sound has already escaped. The sky goes black and I hear a chorus of frogs begin to sing. Stupid! I tell myself. What a stupid thing to do! I wait, frozen, for the woods to come alive with assailants. Then I remember theres almost no one left. Peeta, whos been wounded, is now my ally. Whatever doubts Ive had about him dissipate because if either of us took the others life now wed be pariahs when we returned to District 12. In fact, I know if I was watching Id loathe any tribute who didnt immediately ally with their district partner. Besides, it just makes sense to protect each other. And in my case being one of the star-crossed lovers from District 12 its an absolute requirement if I want any more help from sympathetic sponsors. The star-crossed lovers . . . Peeta must have been playing that angle all along. Why else would the Gamemakers have made this unprecedented change in the rules? For two tributes to have a shot at winning, our romance must be so popular with the audience that condemning it would jeopardize the success of the Games. No

thanks to me. All Ive done is managed not to kill Peeta. But whatever hes done

in the arena, he must have the audience convinced it was to keep me alive. Shaking his head to keep me from running to the Cornucopia. Fighting Cato to let me escape. Even hooking up with the Careers must have been a move to protect me. Peeta, it turns out, has never been a danger to me. The thought makes me smile. I drop my hands and hold my face up to the moonlight so the cameras can be sure to catch it. So, who is there left to be afraid of? Foxface? The boy tribute from her district is dead. Shes operating alone, at night. And her strategy has been to evade, not attack. I dont really think that, even if she heard my voice, shed do anything but hope someone else would kill me. Then theres Thresh. All right, hes a distinct threat. But I havent seen him, not once, since the Games began. I think about how Foxface grew alarmed when she heard a sound at the site of the explosion. But she didnt turn to the Woods, she turned to whatever lies across from it. To that area of the arena that drops off into I dont know what. I feel almost certain that the person she ran from was Thresh and that is his domain. Hed never have heard me from there and, even if he did, Im up too high for someone his size to reach. So that leaves Cato and the girl from District 2, who are now surely celebrating the new rule. Theyre the only

ones left who benefit from it besides Peeta and myself. Do I run from them now, on the chance they heard me call Peetas name? No, I think. Let them come. Let them come with their night-vision glasses and their heavy, branch-breaking bodies. Right into the range of my arrows. But I know they wont. If they didnt come in daylight to my fire, they wont risk what could be another trap at night. When they come, it will be on their own terms, not because Ive let them know my whereabouts. Stay put and get some sleep, Katniss, I instruct myself, although I wish I could start tracking Peeta now. Tomorrow, youll find him. I do sleep, but in the morning Im extra-cautious, thinking that while the Careers might hesitate to attack me in a tree, theyre completely capable of setting an ambush for me. I make sure to fully prepare myself for the day eating a big breakfast, securing my pack, readying my weapons before I descend. But all seems peaceful and undisturbed on the ground. Today Ill have to be scrupulously careful. The Careers will know Im trying to locate Peeta. They may well want to wait until I do before they move in. If hes as badly wounded as Cato thinks, Id be in the position of having to defend us both without any assistance. But if hes that incapacitated, how has he managed to stay alive? And how on earth will I find him? I

try to think of anything Peeta ever said that might give me an indication as to where hes hiding out, but nothing rings a bell. So I go back to the last moment I saw him sparkling in the sunlight, yelling at me to run. Then Cato appeared, his

sword drawn. And after I was gone, he wounded Peeta. But how did Peeta get away? Maybe hed held out better against the tracker jacker poison than Cato. Maybe that was the variable that allowed him to escape. But hed been stung, too. So how far could he have gotten, stabbed and filled with venom? And how has he stayed alive all these days since? If the wound and the stingers havent killed him, surely thirst would have taken him by now. And thats when I get my first clue to his whereabouts. He couldnt have survived without water. I know that from my first few days here. He must be hidden somewhere near a source. Theres the lake, but I find that an unlikely option since its so close to the Careers base camp. A few spring-fed pools. But youd really be a sitting duck at one of those. And the stream. The one that leads from the camp Rue and I made all the way down near the lake and beyond. If he stuck to the stream, he could change his location and always be near water. He could walk in the

current and erase any tracks. He might even be able to get a fish or two. Well, its a place to start, anyway. To confuse my enemies minds, I start a fire with plenty of green wood. Even if they think its a ruse, I hope theyll decide Im hidden somewhere near it. While in reality, Ill be tracking Peeta. The sun burns off the morning haze almost immediately and I can tell the day will be hotter than usual. The waters cool and pleasant on my bare feet as I head downstream. Im tempted to call out Peetas name as I go but decide against it. I will have to find him with my eyes and one good ear or he will have to find me. But hell know Ill be looking, right? He wont have so low of an opinion of me as to think Id ignore the new rule and keep to myself. Would he? Hes very hard to predict, which might be interesting under different circumstances, but at the moment only provides an extra obstacle. It doesnt take long to reach the spot where I peeled off to go the Careers camp. Theres been no sign of Peeta, but this doesnt surprise me. Ive been up and down this stretch three times since the tracker jacker incident. If he were nearby, surely Id have had some suspicion of it. The stream begins to curve to the left into a part of the woods thats new to me. Muddy banks covered in tangled water plants lead to large rocks that increase in size until I

begin to feel somewhat trapped. It would be no small matter to escape the stream now. Fighting off Cato or Thresh as I climbed over this rocky terrain. In fact, Ive just about decided Im on the wrong track entirely, that a wounded boy would be unable to navigate getting to and from this water source, when I see the bloody streak going down the curve of a boulder. Its long dried now, but the smeary lines running side to side suggest someone who perhaps was not fully in control of his mental faculties tried to wipe it away. Hugging the rocks, I move slowly in the direction of the blood, searching for him. I find a few more bloodstains, one

with a few threads of fabric glued to it, but no sign of life. I break down and say his name in a hushed voice. Peeta! Peeta! Then a mockingjay lands on a scruffy tree and begins to mimic my tones so I stop. I give up and climb back down to the stream thinking, He must have moved on. Somewhere farther down. My foot has just broken the surface of the water when I hear a voice. You here to finish me off, sweetheart? I whip around. Its come from the left, so I cant pick it up very well. And the voice was hoarse and weak. Still, it must have been Peeta. Who else in the arena would call me

sweetheart? My eyes peruse the bank, but theres nothing. Just mud, the plants, the base of the rocks. Peeta? I whisper. Where are you? Theres no answer. Could I just have imagined it? No, Im certain it was real and very close at hand, too. Peeta? I creep along the bank. Well, dont step on me. I jump back. His voice was right under my feet. Still theres nothing. Then his eyes open, unmistakably blue in the brown mud and green leaves. I gasp and am rewarded with a hint of white teeth as he laughs. Its the final word in camouflage. Forget chucking weights around. Peeta should have gone into his private session with the Gamemakers and painted himself into a tree. Or a boulder. Or a muddy bank full of weeds. Close your eyes again, I order. He does, and his mouth, too, and completely disappears. Most of what I judge to be his body is actually under a layer of mud and plants. His face and arms are so artfully disguised as to be invisible. I kneel beside him. I guess all those hours decorating cakes paid off. Peeta smiles. Yes, frosting. The final defense of the dying. Youre not going to die, I tell him firmly. Says who? His voice is so ragged. Says me. Were on the same team now, you know, I tell him. His eyes open. So, I heard. Nice of you to find whats left of me. I pull out my water bottle and give him a drink. Did Cato cut you? I ask. Left leg.

Up high, he answers. Lets get you in the stream, wash you off so I can see what kind of wounds youve got, I say. Lean down a minute first, he says. Need to tell you something. I lean over and put my good ear to his lips, which tickle as he whispers. Remember, were madly in love, so its all right to kiss me anytime you feel like it. I jerk my head back but end up laughing. Thanks, Ill keep it in mind. At least, hes still able to joke around. But when I start to help him to the stream, all the levity disappears. Its only two feet away, how hard can it be? Very hard when I realize hes unable to move an inch on his own. Hes so weak that the best he can do is not to resist. I try to drag him, but despite the fact that I know hes doing all he can to keep quiet, sharp cries of pain escape him. The mud and plants seem to have imprisoned him and I finally have to give a gigantic tug to break him from their clutches. Hes still two feet from the water, lying there, teeth gritted, tears cutting trails in the dirt on his face. Look, Peeta, Im

going to roll you into the stream. Its very shallow here, okay? I say. Excellent, he says. I crouch down beside him. No matter what happens, I tell myself, dont stop

until hes in the water. On three, I say. One, two, three! I can only manage one full roll before I have to stop because of the horrible sound hes making. Now hes on the edge of the stream. Maybe this is better anyway. Okay, change of plans. Im not going to put you all the way in, I tell him. Besides, if I get him in, who knows if Id ever be able to get him out? No more rolling? he asks. Thats all done. Lets get you cleaned up. Keep an eye on the woods for me, okay? I say. Its hard to know where to start. He so caked with mud and matted leaves, I cant even see his clothes. If hes wearing clothes. The thought makes me hesitate a moment, but then I plunge in. Naked bodies are no big deal in the arena, right? Ive got two water bottles and Rues water skin. I prop them against rocks in the stream so that two are always filling while I pour the third over Peetas body. It takes a while, but I finally get rid of enough mud to find his clothes. I gently unzip his jacket, unbutton his shirt and ease them off him. His undershirt is so plastered into his wounds I have to cut it away with my knife and drench him again to work it loose. Hes badly bruised with a long burn across his chest and four tracker jacker stings, if you count the one under his ear. But I feel a bit better. This much I can fix. I decide to take care of his upper body first, to alleviate

some pain, before I tackle whatever damage Cato did to his leg. Since treating his wounds seems pointless when hes lying in whats become a mud puddle, I manage to prop him up against a boulder. He sits there, uncomplaining, while I wash away all the traces of dirt from his hair and skin. His flesh is very pale in the sunlight and he no longer looks strong and stocky. I have to dig the stingers out of his tracker jacker lumps, which causes him to wince, but the minute I apply the leaves he sighs in relief. While he dries in the sun, I wash his filthy shirt and jacket and spread them over boulders. Then I apply the burn cream to his chest. This is when I notice how hot his skin is becoming. The layer of mud and the bottles of water have disguised the fact that hes burning with fever. I dig through the first-aid kit I got from the boy from District 1 and find pills that reduce your temperature. My mother actually breaks down and buys these on occasion when her home remedies fail. Swallow these, I tell him, and he obediently takes the medicine. You must be hungry. Not really. Its funny, I havent been hungry for days, says Peeta. In fact, when I offer him groosling, he wrinkles his nose at it and turns away. Thats when I know how sick he is. Peeta, we need to get some food in you, I insist. Itll just come right back up, he says. The best I

can do is to get him to eat a few bits of dried apple. Thanks. Im much better, really. Can I sleep now,

Katniss? he asks. Soon, I promise. I need to look at your leg first. Trying to be as gentle as I can, I remove his boots, his socks, and then very slowly inch his pants off of him. I can see the tear Catos sword made in the fabric over his thigh, but it in no way prepares me for what lies underneath. The deep inflamed gash oozing both blood and pus. The swelling of the leg. And worst of all, the smell of festering flesh. I want to run away. Disappear into the woods like I did that day they brought the burn victim to our house. Go and hunt while my mother and Prim attend to what I have neither the skill nor the courage to face. But theres no one here but me. I try to capture the calm demeanor my mother assumes when handling particularly bad cases. Pretty awful, huh? says Peeta. Hes watching me closely. So-so. I shrug like its no big deal. You should see some of the people they bring my mother from the mines. I refrain from saying how I usually clear out of the house whenever shes treating anything worse than a cold. Come to think of it, I dont even much like to be around coughing.

First thing is to clean it well. Ive left on Peetas undershorts because theyre not in bad shape and I dont want to pull them over the swollen thigh and, all right, maybe the idea of him being naked makes me uncomfortable. Thats another thing about my mother and Prim. Nakedness has no effect on them, gives them no cause for embarrassment. Ironically, at this point in the Games, my little sister would be of far more use to Peeta than I am. I scoot my square of plastic under him so I can wash down the rest of him. With each bottle I pour over him, the worse the wound looks. The rest of his lower body has fared pretty well, just one tracker jacker sting and a few small burns that I treat quickly. But the gash on his leg . . . What on earth can I do for that? Why dont we give it some air and then . . . I trail off. And then youll patch it up? says Peeta. He looks almost sorry for me, as if he knows how lost I am. Thats right, I say. In the meantime, you eat these. I put a few dried pear halves in his hand and go back in the stream to wash the rest of his clothes. When theyre flattened out and drying, I examine the contents of the first-aid kit. Its pretty basic stuff. Bandages, fever pills, medicine to calm stomachs. Nothing of the caliber Ill need to treat Peeta. Were going to have to experiment some, I admit. I know the tracker jacker leaves

draw out infection, so I start with those. Within minutes of pressing the handful of chewed-up green stuff into the wound, pus begins running down the side of his leg. I tell myself this is a good thing and bite the inside of my cheek hard because my breakfast is threatening to make a reappearance. Katniss? Peeta says. I meet his eyes, knowing my face must be some shade of green. He mouths the words. How about that kiss? I burst out laughing because the whole thing is so revolting I cant stand it. Something wrong? he asks a little too

innocently. I . . . Im no good at this. Im not my mother. Ive no idea what Im doing and I hate pus, I say. Euh! I allow myself to let out a groan as I rinse away the first round of leaves and apply the second. Euuuh! How do you hunt? he asks. Trust me. Killing things is much easier than this, I say. Although for all I know, I am killing you. Can you speed it up a little? he asks. No. Shut up and eat your pears, I say. After three applications and what seems like a bucket of pus, the wound does look better. Now that the swelling has gone down, I can see how deep Catos sword cut. Right down to the bone. What next, Dr. Everdeen? he asks. Maybe Ill put some of the burn

ointment on it. I think it helps with infection anyway. And wrap it up? I say. I do and the whole thing seems a lot more manageable, covered in clean white cotton. Although, against the sterile bandage, the hem of his undershorts looks filthy and teeming with contagion. I pull out Rues backpack. Here, cover yourself with this and Ill wash your shorts. Oh, I dont care if you see me, says Peeta. Youre just like the rest of my family, I say. I care, all right? I turn my back and look at the stream until the undershorts splash into the current. He must be feeling a bit better if he can throw. You know, youre kind of squeamish for such a lethal person, says Peeta as I beat the shorts clean between two rocks. I wish Id let you give Haymitch a shower after all. I wrinkle my nose at the memory. Whats he sent you so far? Not a thing, says Peeta. Then theres a pause as it hits him. Why, did you get something? Burn medicine, I say almost sheepishly. Oh, and some bread. I always knew you were his favorite, says Peeta. Please, he cant stand being in the same room with me, I say. Because youre just alike, mutters Peeta. I ignore it though because this really isnt the time for me to be insulting Haymitch, which is my first impulse. I let Peeta doze off while his clothes dry out, but by late afternoon, I dont dare wait any longer. I gently shake his

shoulder. Peeta, weve got to go now. Go? He seems confused. Go where? Away from here. Downstream maybe. Somewhere we can hide you until youre stronger, I say. I help him dress, leaving his feet bare so we can walk in the water, and pull him upright. His face drains of color the moment he puts weight on his leg. Come on. You can do this. But he cant. Not for long anyway. We make it about fifty yards downstream, with him propped up by my shoulder, and I can tell hes going to black out. I sit him on the bank, push his head between his knees, and pat his back awkwardly as I survey the area. Of course, Id love to get him up in a tree, but thats not going to happen. It could be worse though. Some of the rocks form small cavelike structures. I set my sights on one about twenty yards above the stream. When Peetas able to stand, I half-guide, half-carry him up to the cave. Really, Id like to look around for a better place, but this one will have to do because my

ally is shot. Paper white, panting, and, even though its only just cooling off, hes shivering. I cover the floor of the cave with a layer of pine needles, unroll my sleeping bag, and tuck him into it. I get a couple of pills and some water into him

when hes not noticing, but he refuses to eat even the fruit. Then he just lies there, his eyes trained on my face as I build a sort of blind out of vines to conceal the mouth of the cave. The result is unsatisfactory. An animal might not question it, but a human would see hands had manufactured it quickly enough. I tear it down in frustration. Katniss, he says. I go over to him and brush the hair back from his eyes. Thanks for finding me. You would have found me if you could, I say. His foreheads burning up. Like the medicines having no effect at all. Suddenly, out of nowhere, Im scared hes going to die. Yes. Look, if I dont make it back he begins. Dont talk like that. I didnt drain all that pus for nothing, I say. I know. But just in case I dont he tries to continue. No, Peeta, I dont even want to discuss it, I say, placing my fingers on his lips to quiet him. But I he insists. Impulsively, I lean forward and kiss him, stopping his words. This is probably overdue anyway since hes right, we are supposed to be madly in love. Its the first time Ive ever kissed a boy, which should make some sort of impression I guess, but all I can register is how unnaturally hot his lips are from the fever. I break away and pull the edge of the sleeping bag up around him. Youre not going to die. I forbid it. All right? All right, he whispers. I step out in the cool

evening air just as the parachute floats down from the sky. My fingers quickly undo the tie, hoping for some real medicine to treat Peetas leg. Instead I find a pot of hot broth. Haymitch couldnt be sending me a clearer message. One kiss equals one pot of broth. I can almost hear his snarl. Youre supposed to be in love, sweetheart. The boys dying. Give me something I can work with! And hes right. If I want to keep Peeta alive, Ive got to give the audience something more to care about. Star-crossed lovers desperate to get home together. Two hearts beating as one. Romance. Never having been in love, this is going to be a real trick. I think of my parents. The way my father never failed to bring her gifts from the woods. The way my mothers face would light up at the sound of his boots at the door. The way she almost stopped living when he died. Peeta! I say, trying for the special tone that my mother used only with my father. Hes dozed off again, but I kiss him awake, which seems to startle him. Then he smiles as if hed be happy to lie there gazing at me forever. Hes great at this stuff. I hold up the pot. Peeta, look what Haymitch has sent you.

20.

Getting the broth into Peeta takes an hour of coaxing, begging, threatening, and yes, kissing, but finally, sip by sip, he empties the pot. I let him drift off to sleep then and attend to my own needs, wolfing down a supper of

groosling and roots while I watch the daily report in the sky. No new casualties. Still, Peeta and I have given the audience a fairly interesting day. Hopefully, the Gamemakers will allow us a peaceful night. I automatically look around for a good tree to nest in before I realize thats over. At least for a while. I cant very well leave Peeta unguarded on the ground. I left the scene of his last hiding place on the bank of the stream untouched how could I conceal it? and were a scant fifty yards downstream. I put on my glasses, place my weapons in readiness, and settle down to keep watch. The temperature drops rapidly and soon Im chilled to the bone. Eventually, I give in and slide into the sleeping bag with Peeta. Its toasty warm and I snuggle down gratefully until I realize its more than warm, its overly hot because the bag is reflecting back his fever. I check his forehead and find it burning and dry. I dont know what to do. Leave him in the bag and hope the excessive heat breaks the

fever? Take him out and hope the night air cools him off? I end up just dampening a strip of bandage and placing it on his forehead. It seems weak, but Im afraid to do anything too drastic. I spend the night half-sitting, half-lying next to Peeta, refreshing the bandage, and trying not to dwell on the fact that by teaming up with him, Ive made myself far more vulnerable than when I was alone. Tethered to the ground, on guard, with a very sick person to take care of. But I knew he was injured. And still I came after him. Im just going to have to trust that whatever instinct sent me to find him was a good one. When the sky turns rosy, I notice the sheen of sweat on Peetas lip and discover the fever has broken. Hes not back to normal, but its come down a few degrees. Last night, when I was gathering vines, I came upon a bush of Rues berries. I strip off the fruit and mash it up in the broth pot with cold water. Peetas struggling to get up when I reach the cave. I woke up and you were gone, he says. I was worried about you. I have to laugh as I ease him back down. You were worried about me? Have you taken a look at yourself lately? I thought Cato and Clove might have found you. They like to hunt at night, he says, still serious. Clove? Which one is that? I ask. The girl from District Two. Shes still alive, right? he

says. Yes, theres just them and us and Thresh and Foxface, I say. Thats what I nicknamed the girl from Five. How do you feel? Better than yesterday. This is an enormous improvement over the mud, he says. Clean clothes and medicine and a sleeping bag . . . And you. Oh, right, the whole romance thing. I reach out to touch his cheek and he catches my hand and presses it against his lips. I remember my father doing this very thing to my mother and I wonder where Peeta picked it up. Surely not from his father and the witch. No more kisses for you until youve eaten, I say. We get him propped up against the wall and he obediently swallows the spoonfuls of the

berry mush I feed him. He refuses the groosling again, though. You didnt sleep, Peeta says. Im all right, I say. But the truth is, Im exhausted. Sleep now. Ill keep watch. Ill wake you if anything happens, he says. I hesitate. Katniss, you cant stay up forever. Hes got a point there. Ill have to sleep eventually. And probably better to do it now when he seems relatively alert and we have daylight on our side. All right, I say. But just for a few hours. Then you wake me. Its too warm for the sleeping bag now. I smooth it out on the cave floor and lie down, one hand on my loaded bow in

case I have to shoot at a moments notice. Peeta sits beside me, leaning against the wall, his bad leg stretched out before him, his eyes trained on the world outside. Go to sleep, he says softly. His hand brushes the loose strands of my hair off my forehead. Unlike the staged kisses and caresses so far, this gesture seems natural and comforting. I dont want him to stop and he doesnt. Hes still stroking my hair when I fall asleep. Too long. I sleep too long. I know from the moment I open my eyes that were into the afternoon. Peetas right beside me, his position unchanged. I sit up, feeling somehow defensive but better rested than Ive been in days. Peeta, you were supposed to wake me after a couple of hours, I say. For what? Nothings going on here, he says. Besides I like watching you sleep. You dont scowl. Improves your looks a lot. This, of course, brings on a scowl that makes him grin. Thats when I notice how dry his lips are. I test his cheek. Hot as a coal stove. He claims hes been drinking, but the containers still feel full to me. I give him more fever pills and stand over him while he drinks first one, then a second quart of water. Then I tend to his minor wounds, the burns, the stings, which are showing improvement. I steel myself and unwrap the leg. My heart drops into my stomach. Its worse, much worse. Theres no

more pus in evidence, but the swelling has increased and the tight shiny skin is inflamed. Then I see the red streaks starting to crawl up his leg. Blood poisoning. Unchecked, it will kill him for sure. My chewed-up leaves and ointment wont make a dent in it. Well need strong anti-infection drugs from the Capitol. I cant imagine the cost of such potent medicine. If Haymitch pooled every donation from every sponsor, would he have enough? I doubt it. Gifts go up in price the longer the Games continue. What buys a full meal on day one buys a cracker on day twelve. And the kind of medicine Peeta needs would have been at a premium from the beginning. Well, theres more swelling, but the pus is gone, I say in an unsteady voice. I know what blood poisoning is, Katniss, says Peeta. Even if my mother isnt a healer. Youre just going to have to outlast the others, Peeta. Theyll cure it back at the Capitol when we win, I say. Yes, thats a good plan, he says. But I feel this is mostly for my benefit. You have to eat. Keep your strength up. Im going to make you

soup, I say. Dont light a fire, he says. Its not worth it. Well see, I say. As I take the pot down to the stream, Im struck by how brutally hot it is. I swear the

Gamemakers are progressively ratcheting up the temperature in the daytime and sending it plummeting at night. The heat of the sun-baked stones by the stream gives me an idea though. Maybe I wont need to light a fire. I settle down on a big flat rock halfway between the stream and the cave. After purifying half a pot of water, I place it in direct sunlight and add several egg-size hot stones to the water. Im the first to admit Im not much of a cook. But since soup mainly involves tossing everything in a pot and waiting, its one of my better dishes. I mince groosling until its practically mush and mash some of Rues roots. Fortunately, theyve both been roasted already so they mostly need to be heated up. Already, between the sunlight and the rocks, the waters warm. I put in the meat and roots, swap in fresh rocks, and go find something green to spice it up a little. Before long, I discover a tuft of chives growing at the base of some rocks. Perfect. I chop them very fine and add them to the pot, switch out the rocks again, put on the lid, and let the whole thing stew. Ive seen very few signs of game around, but I dont feel comfortable leaving Peeta alone while I hunt, so I rig half a dozen snares and hope I get lucky. I wonder about the other tributes, how theyre managing now that their main source of food has been blown up.

At least three of them, Cato, Clove, and Foxface, had been relying on it. Probably not Thresh though. Ive got a feeling he must share some of Rues knowledge on how to feed yourself from the earth. Are they fighting each other? Looking for us? Maybe one of them has located us and is just waiting for the right moment to attack. The idea sends me back to the cave. Peetas stretched out on top of the sleeping bag in the shade of the rocks. Although he brightens a bit when I come in, its clear he feels miserable. I put cool cloths on his head, but they warm up almost as soon as they touch his skin. Do you want anything? I ask. No, he says. Thank you. Wait, yes. Tell me a story. A story? What about? I say. Im not much for storytelling. Its kind of like singing. But once in a while, Prim wheedles one out of me. Something happy. Tell me about the happiest day you can remember, says Peeta. Something between a sigh and a huff of exasperation leaves my mouth. A happy story? This will require a lot more effort than the soup. I rack my brains for good memories. Most of them involve Gale and me out hunting and somehow I dont think these will play well with either Peeta or the audience. That leaves Prim. Did I ever tell you about how I got Prims goat? I ask. Peeta shakes his head, and looks at me expectantly. So I begin. But carefully.

Because my words are going out all over Panem. And while people have no doubt put two and two together that I hunt illegally, I dont want to hurt Gale

or Greasy Sae or the butcher or even the Peacekeepers back home who are my customers by publicly announcing theyd breaking the law, too. Heres the real story of how I got the money for Prims goat, Lady. It was a Friday evening, the day before Prims tenth birthday in late May. As soon as school ended, Gale and I hit the woods, because I wanted to get enough to trade for a present for Prim. Maybe some new cloth for a dress or a hairbrush. Our snares had done well enough and the woods were flush with greens, but this was really no more than our average Friday-night haul. I was disappointed as we headed back, even though Gale said wed be sure to do better tomorrow. We were resting a moment by a stream when we saw him. A young buck, probably a yearling by his size. His antlers were just growing in, still small and coated in velvet. Poised to run but unsure of us, unfamiliar with humans. Beautiful. Less beautiful perhaps when the two arrows caught him, one in the neck, the other in the chest. Gale and I had shot at the same time. The buck tried to run but stumbled, and

Gales knife slit his throat before he knew what had happened. Momentarily, Id felt a pang at killing something so fresh and innocent. And then my stomach rumbled at the thought of all that fresh and innocent meat. A deer! Gale and I have only brought down three in all. The first one, a doe that had injured her leg somehow, almost didnt count. But we knew from that experience not to go dragging the carcass into the Hob. It had caused chaos with people bidding on parts and actually trying to hack off pieces themselves. Greasy Sae had intervened and sent us with our deer to the butcher, but not before itd been badly damaged, hunks of meat taken, the hide riddled with holes. Although everybody paid up fairly, it had lowered the value of the kill. This time, we waited until dark fell and slipped under a hole in the fence close to the butcher. Even though we were known hunters, it wouldnt have been good to go carrying a 150-pound deer through the streets of District 12 in daylight like we were rubbing it in the officials faces. The butcher, a short, chunky woman named Rooba, came to the back door when we knocked. You dont haggle with Rooba. She gives you one price, which you can take or leave, but its a fair price. We took her offer on the deer and she threw in a couple of venison steaks we could pick up after the

butchering. Even with the money divided in two, neither Gale nor I had held so much at one time in our lives. We decided to keep it a secret and surprise our families with the meat and money at the end of the next day. This is where I really got the money for the goat, but I tell Peeta I sold an old silver locket of my mothers. That cant hurt anyone. Then I pick up the story in the late afternoon of Prims birthday. Gale and I went to the market on the square so that I could buy dress materials. As I was running my fingers over a length of thick blue cotton cloth, something caught my

eye. Theres an old man who keeps a small herd of goats on the other side of the Seam. I dont know his real name, everyone just calls him the Goat Man. His joints are swollen and twisted in painful angles, and hes got a hacking cough that proves he spent years in the mines. But hes lucky. Somewhere along the way he saved up enough for these goats and now has something to do in his old age besides slowly starve to death. Hes filthy and impatient, but the goats are clean and their milk is rich if you can afford it. One of the goats, a white one with black patches, was lying down in a cart. It was easy to see why. Something, probably a dog, had mauled her

shoulder and infection had set in. It was bad, the Goat Man had to hold her up to milk her. But I thought I knew someone who could fix it. Gale, I whispered. I want that goat for Prim. Owning a nanny goat can change your life in District 12. The animals can live off almost anything, the Meadows a perfect feeding place, and they can give four quarts of milk a day. To drink, to make into cheese, to sell. Its not even against the law. Shes hurt pretty bad, said Gale. We better take a closer look. We went over and bought a cup of milk to share, then stood over the goat as if idly curious. Let her be, said the man. Just looking, said Gale. Well, look fast. She goes to the butcher soon. Hardly anyone will buy her milk, and then they only pay half price, said the man. Whats the butcher giving for her? I asked. The man shrugged. Hang around and see. I turned and saw Rooba coming across the square toward us. Lucky thing you showed up, said the Goat Man when she arrived. Girls got her eye on your goat. Not if shes spoken for, I said carelessly. Rooba looked me up and down then frowned at the goat. Shes not. Look at that shoulder. Bet you half the carcass will be too rotten for even sausage. What? said the Goat Man. We had a deal. We had a deal on an animal with a few teeth marks. Not that thing. Sell her to the girl if shes stupid enough to take

her, said Rooba. As she marched off, I caught her wink. The Goat Man was mad, but he still wanted that goal off his hands. It took us half an hour to agree on the price. Quite a crowd had gathered by then to hand out opinions. It was an excellent deal if the goat lived; Id been robbed if she died. People took sides in the argument, but I took the goat. Gale offered to carry her. I think he wanted to see the look on Prims face as much as I did. In a moment of complete giddiness, I bought a pink ribbon and tied it around her neck. Then we hurried back to my house. You should have seen Prims reaction when we walked in with that goat. Remember this is a girl who wept to save that awful old cat, Buttercup. She was so excited she started crying and laughing all at once. My mother was less sure, seeing the injury, but the pair of them went to work on it, grinding up herbs and coaxing brews down the animals throat. They sound like you, says Peeta. I had almost forgotten he

was there. Oh, no, Peeta. They work magic. That thing couldnt have died if it tried, I say. But then I bite my tongue, realizing what that must sound like to Peeta, who is dying, in my incompetent hands. Dont worry. Im not trying, he jokes. Finish

the story. Well, thats it. Only I remember that night, Prim insisted on sleeping with Lady on a blanket next to the fire. And just before they drifted off, the goat licked her cheek, like it was giving her a good night kiss or something, I say. It was already mad about her. Was it still wearing the pink ribbon? he asks. I think so, I say. Why? Im just trying to get a picture, he says thoughtfully. I can see why that day made you happy. Well, I knew that goat would be a little gold mine, 1 say. Yes, of course I was referring to that, not the lasting joy you gave the sister you love so much you took her place in the reaping, says Peeta drily. The goat has paid for itself. Several times over, I say in a superior tone. Well, it wouldnt dare do anything else after you saved its life, says Peeta. I intend to do the same thing. Really? What did you cost me again? I ask. A lot of trouble. Dont worry. Youll get it all back, he says. Youre not making sense, I say. I test his forehead. The levers going nowhere but up. Youre a little cooler though. The sound of the trumpets startles me. Im on my feet and at the mouth of the cave in a flash, not wanting to miss a syllable. Its my new best friend, Claudius Templesmith, and as I expected, hes inviting us to a feast. Well, were not that hungry and I actually wave his offer away in indifference when he says, Now

hold on. Some of you may already be declining my invitation. But this is no ordinary feast. Each of you needs something desperately. I do need something desperately. Something to heal Peetas leg. Each of you will find that something in a backpack, marked with your district number, at the Cornucopia at dawn. Think hard about refusing to show up. For some of you, this will be your last chance, says Claudius. Theres nothing else, just his words hanging in the air. I jump as Peeta grips my shoulder from behind. No, he says. Youre not risking your life for me. Who said I was? I say. So, youre not going? he asks. Of course, Im not going. Give me some credit. Do you think Im running straight into some free-for-all against Cato and Clove and Thresh? Dont be stupid, I say, helping him back to bed. Ill let them fight it out, well see whos in the sky tomorrow night and work out a plan from there. Youre such a bad liar, Katniss. I dont know how youve survived this long. He begins to mimic me. I knew that goat would be a little gold mine. Youre a little cooler though. Of course, Im not going. He shakes his head. Never gamble at cards. Youll lose your last coin, he says. Anger flushes my face. All right, I am going, and you cant stop me! I can follow you. At least partway. I may not make it to the Cornucopia, but if Im yelling your

name, I bet someone can find me. And then

Ill be dead for sure, he says. You wont get a hundred yards from here on that leg, I say. Then Ill drag myself, says Peeta. You go and Im going, too. Hes just stubborn enough and maybe just strong enough to do it. Come howling after me in the woods. Even if a tribute doesnt find him, something else might. He cant defend himself. Id probably have to wall him up in the cave just to go myself. And who knows what the exertion will do to him? What am I supposed to do? Sit here and watch you die? I say. He must know thats not an option. That the audience would hate me. And frankly, I would hate myself, too, if I didnt even try. I wont die. I promise. If you promise not to go, he says. Were at something of a stalemate. I know I cant argue him out of this one, so I dont try. I pretend, reluctantly, to go along. Then you have to do what I say. Drink your water, wake me when I tell you, and eat every bite of the soup no matter how disgusting it is! I snap at him. Agreed. Is it ready? he asks. Wait here, I say. The airs gone cold even though the suns still up. Im right about the Gamemakers messing with the temperature. I wonder if the thing

someone needs desperately is a good blanket. The soup is still nice and warm in its iron pot. And actually doesnt taste too bad. Peeta eats without complaint, even scraping out the pot to show his enthusiasm. He rambles on about how delicious it is, which should be encouraging if you dont know what fever does to people. Hes like listening to Haymitch before the alcohol has soaked him into incoherence. I give him another dose of fever medicine before he goes off his head completely. As I go down to the stream to wash up, all I can think is that hes going to die if I dont get to that feast. Ill keep him going for a day or two, and then the infection will reach his heart or his brain or his lungs and hell be gone. And Ill be here all alone. Again. Waiting for the others. Im so lost in thought that I almost miss the parachute, even though it floats right by me. Then I spring after it, yanking it from the water, tearing off the silver fabric to retrieve the vial. Haymitch has done it! Hes gotten the medicine I dont know how, persuaded some gaggle of romantic fools to sell their jewels and I can save Peeta! Its such a tiny vial though. It must be very strong to cure someone as ill as Peeta. A ripple of doubt runs through me. I uncork the vial and take a deep sniff. My spirits fall at the sickly sweet scent. Just to be sure, I place a drop on the tip of my

tongue. Theres no question, its sleep syrup. Its a common medicine in District 12. Cheap, as medicine goes, but very addictive. Almost everyones had a dose at one time or another. We have some in a bottle at home. My mother gives it to hysterical patients to knock them out to stitch up a bad wound or quiet their minds or just to help someone in pain get through the night. It only takes a little. A vial this size could knock Peeta out for a full day, but what good is that? Im

so furious Im about to throw Haymitchs last offering into the stream when it hits me. A full day? Thats more than I need. I mash up a handful of berries so the taste wont be as noticeable and add some mint leaves for good measure. Then I head back up to the cave. Ive brought you a treat. I found a new patch of berries a little farther downstream. Peeta opens his mouth for the first bite without hesitation. He swallows then frowns slightly. Theyre very sweet. Yes, theyre sugar berries. My mother makes jam from them. Havent you ever had them before? I say, poking the next spoonful in his mouth. No, he says, almost puzzled. But they taste familiar. Sugar berries? Well, you cant get them in the market much, they only grow wild, I say. Another mouthful

goes down. Just one more to go. Theyre sweet as syrup, he says, taking the last spoonful. Syrup. His eyes widen as he realizes the truth. I clamp my hand over his mouth and nose hard, forcing him to swallow instead of spit. He tries to make himself vomit the stuff up, but its too late, hes already losing consciousness. Even as he fades away, I can see in his eyes what Ive done is unforgivable. I sit back on my heels and look at him with a mixture of sadness and satisfaction. A stray berry stains his chin and I wipe it away. Who cant lie, Peeta? I say, even though he cant hear me. It doesnt matter. The rest of Panem can.

21.

In the remaining hours before nightfall, I gather rocks and do my best to camouflage the opening of the cave. Its a slow and arduous process, but after a lot of sweating and shifting things around, Im pretty pleased with my work, The cave now appears to be part of a larger pile of rocks, like so many in the vicinity. I can still crawl in to Peeta through a small opening, but its undetectable from the out side.

Thats good, because Ill need to share that sleeping bag again tonight. Also, if I dont make it back from the feast, Peeta will be hidden but not entirely imprisoned. Although I doubt he can hang on much longer without medicine. If I die at the feast, District 12 isnt likely to have a victor. I make a meal out of the smaller, bonier fish that inhabit the stream down here, fill every water container and purify it, and clean my weapons. Ive nine arrows left in all. I debate leaving the knife with Peeta so hell have some protection while Im gone, but theres really no point. He was right about camouflage being his final defense. But I still might have use for the knife. Who knows what Ill encounter? Here are some things Im fairly certain of. That at least Cato, Clove, and Thresh will be on hand when the feast starts. Im not sure about Foxface since direct confrontation isnt her style or her forte. Shes even smaller than I am and unarmed, unless shes picked up some weapons recently. Shell probably be hanging somewhere nearby, seeing what she can scavenge. But the other three . . . Im going to have my hands full. My ability to kill at a distance is my greatest asset, but I know Ill have to go


right into the thick of things to get that backpack, the one with the number 12 on it that Claudius Templesmith mentioned. I watch the sky, hoping for one less opponent at dawn, but nobody appears tonight. Tomorrow there will be faces up there. Feasts always result in fatalities. I crawl into the cave, secure my glasses, and curl up next to Peeta. Luckily I had that good long sleep today. I have to stay awake. I dont really think anyone will attack our cave tonight, but I cant risk missing the dawn. So cold, so bitterly cold tonight. As if the Gamemakers have sent an infusion of frozen air across the arena, which may be exactly what theyve done. I lay next to Peeta in the bag, trying to absorb every bit of his fever heat. Its strange to be so physically close to someone whos so distant. Peeta might as well be back in the Capitol, or in District 12, or on the moon right now, hed be no harder to reach. Ive never felt lonelier since the Games began. Just accept it will be a bad night, I tell myself. I try not to, but I cant help thinking of my mother and Prim, wondering if theyll sleep a wink tonight. At this late stage in the Games, with an important event like the feast, school will probably be canceled. My family can either watch on that static-filled old clunker of a television at home or join the crowds in the square to

watch on the big, clear screens, Theyll have privacy at home but support in the square. People will give them a kind word, a bit of food if they can spare it. I wonder if the baker has sought them out, especially now that Peeta and I are a team, and made good on his promise to keep my sisters belly full. Spirits must be running high in District 12. We so rarely have anyone to root for at this point in the Games. Surely, people are excited about Peeta and me, especially now that were together. If I close my eyes, I can imagine their shouts at the screens, urging us on. I see their faces Greasy Sac and Madge and even the Peacekeepers who buy my meat cheering for us. And Gale. I know him. He wont be shouting and cheering. But hell be watching, every moment, every twist and turn, and willing me to come home. I wonder if hes hoping that Peeta makes it as well. Gales not my boyfriend, but would he be, if I opened that door? He talked about us running away together. Was that just a practical calculation of our chances of survival away from the district? Or something more? I wonder what he makes of all this kissing. Through a crack in the rocks, I watch the moon cross the sky. At what I judge to be about three hours before dawn, I begin final preparations. Im careful to leave Peeta with water and the medical kit right beside him. Nothing

else will be of much use if I dont return, and even these would only prolong his life a short time. After some debate, I strip him of his jacket and zip it on over my own. He doesnt need it. Not now in the sleeping bag with his fever, and during the day, if Im not there to remove it, hell be roasting in

it. My hands are already stiff from cold, so I take Rues spare pair of socks, cut holes for my fingers and thumbs, and pull them on. It helps anyway. I fill her small pack with some food, a water bottle, and bandages, tuck the knife in my belt, get my bow and arrows. Im about to leave when I remember the importance of sustaining the star-crossed lover routine and I lean over and give Peeta a long, lingering kiss. I imagine the teary sighs emanating from the Capitol and pretend to brush away a tear of my own. Then I squeeze through the opening in the rocks out into the night. My breath makes small white clouds as it hits the air. Its as cold as a November night at home. One where Ive slipped into the woods, lantern in hand, to join Gale at some prearranged place where well sit bundled together, sipping herb tea from metal flasks wrapped in quilting, hoping game will pass our way as the morning comes on. Oh,

Gale, I think. If only you had my back now . . . I move as fast as I dare. The glasses are quite remarkable, but I still sorely miss having the use of my left ear. I dont know what the explosion did, but it damaged something deep and irreparable. Never mind. If I get home, Ill be so stinking rich, Ill be able to pay someone to do my hearing. The woods always look different at night. Even with the glasses, everything has an unfamiliar slant to it. As if the daytime trees and flowers and stones had gone to bed and sent slightly more ominous versions of themselves to take their places. I dont try anything tricky, like taking a new route. I make my way back up the stream and follow the same path back to Rues hiding place near the lake. Along the way, I see no sign of another tribute, not a puff of breath, not a quiver of a branch. Either Im the first to arrive or the others positioned themselves last night. Theres still more than an hour, maybe two, when I wriggle into the underbrush and wait for the blood to begin to flow. I chew a few mint leaves, my stomach isnt up for much more. Thank goodness, I have Peetas jacket as well as my own. If not, Id be forced to move around to stay warm. The sky turns a misty morning gray and still theres no sign of the other tributes. Its not surprising really. Everyone has distinguished themselves either by

strength or deadliness or cunning. Do they suppose, I wonder, that I have Peeta with me? I doubt Foxface and Thresh even know he was wounded. All the better if they think hes covering me when I go in for the backpack. But where is it? The arena has lightened enough for me to remove my glasses. I can hear the morning birds singing. Isnt it time? For a second, Im panicked that Im at the wrong location. But no, Im certain I remember Claudius Templesmith specifying the Cornucopia. And there it is. And here I am. So wheres my feast? Just as the first ray of sun glints off the gold Cornucopia, theres a disturbance on the plain. The ground before the mouth of the horn splits in two and a round table with a snowy white

cloth rises into the arena. On the table sit four backpacks, two large black ones with the numbers 2 and 11, a medium-size green one with the number 5, and a tiny orange one really I could carry it around my wrist that must be marked with a 12. The table has just clicked into place when a figure darts out of the Cornucopia, snags the green backpack, and speeds off. Foxface! Leave it to her to come up with such a clever and risky idea! The rest of us are still poised around the plain, sizing up the

situation, and shes got hers. Shes got us trapped, too, because no one wants to chase her down, not while their own pack sits so vulnerable on the table. Foxface must have purposefully left the other packs alone, knowing that to steal one without her number would definitely bring on a pursuer. That should have been my strategy! By the lime Ive worked through the emotions of surprise, admiration, anger, jealousy, and frustration, Im watching that reddish mane of hair disappear into the trees well out of shooting range. Huh. Im always dreading the others, but maybe Foxface is the real opponent here. Shes cost me time, too, because by now its clear that I must get to the table next. Anyone who beats me to it will easily scoop up my pack and be gone. Without hesitation, I sprint for the table. I can sense the emergence of danger before I see it. Fortunately, the first knife comes whizzing in on my right side so I can hear it and Im able to deflect it with my bow. I turn, drawing back the bowstring and send an arrow straight at Cloves heart. She turns just enough to avoid a fatal hit, but the point punctures her upper left arm. Unfortunately, she throws with her right, but its enough to slow her down a few moments, having to pull the arrow from her arm, take in the severity of the wound. I keep moving, positioning

the next arrow automatically, as only someone who has hunted for years can do. Im at the table now, my fingers closing over the tiny orange backpack. My hand slips between the straps and I yank it up on my arm, its really too small to fit on any other part of my anatomy, and Im turning to fire again when the second knife catches me in the forehead. It slices above my right eyebrow, opening a gash that sends a gush running down my face, blinding my eye, filling my mouth with the sharp, metallic taste of my own blood. I stagger backward but still manage to send my readied arrow in the general direction of my assailant. I know as it leaves my hands it will miss. And then Clove slams into me, knocking me flat on my back, pinning my shoulders to the ground, with her knees. This is it, I think, and hope for Prims sake it will be fast. But Clove means to savor the moment. Even feels she has time. No doubt Cato is somewhere nearby, guarding her, waiting for Thresh and possibly Peeta. Wheres your boyfriend, District Twelve? Still hanging on? she asks. Well, as long as were talking Im alive. Hes out there now. Hunting Cato, I snarl at her. Then I scream at

the top of my lungs. Peeta! Clove jams her fist into my windpipe, very

effectively cutting off my voice. But her heads whipping from side to side, and I know for a moment shes at least considering Im telling the truth. Since no Peeta appears to save me, she turns back to me. Liar, she says with a grin. Hes nearly dead. Cato knows where he cut him. Youve probably got him strapped up in some tree while you try to keep his heart going. Whats in the pretty little backpack? That medicine for Lover Boy? Too bad hell never get it. Clove opens her jacket. Its lined with an impressive array of knives. She carefully selects an almost dainty-looking number with a cruel, curved blade. I promised Cato if he let me have you, Id give the audience a good show. Im struggling now in an effort to unseat her, but its no use. Shes too heavy and her lock on me too tight. Forget it, District Twelve. Were going to kill you. Just like we did your pathetic little ally . . . What was her name? The one who hopped around in the trees? Rue? Well, first Rue, then you, and then I think well just let nature take care of Lover Boy. How does that sound? Clove asks. Now, where to start? She carelessly wipes away the blood from my wound with her jacket sleeve. For a moment, she surveys my face, tilting it from side to side as if its a block of wood and shes deciding exactly what pattern to carve on it. I attempt to bite her hand, but she

grabs the hair on the top of my head, forcing me back to the ground. I think . . . She almost purrs. I think well start with your mouth. I clamp my teeth together as she teasingly traces the outline of my lips with the tip of the blade. I wont close my eyes. The comment about Rue has filled me with fury, enough fury I think to die with some dignity. As my last act of defiance, I will stare her down as long as I can see, which will probably not be an extended period of time, but I will stare her down, I will not cry out. I will die, in my own small way, undefeated. Yes, I dont think youll have much use for your lips anymore. Want to blow Lover Boy one last kiss? she asks, I work up a mouthful of blood and saliva and spit it in her face. She flushes with rage. All right then. Lets get started. I brace myself for the agony thats sure to follow. But as I feel the tip open the first cut at my lip, some great form yanks Clove from my body and then shes screaming. Im too stunned at first, too unable to process what has happened. Has Peeta somehow come to my rescue? Have the Gamemakers sent in some wild animal to add to the fun? Has a hovercraft inexplicably plucked her into the air? But when I push myself up on my numb arms, I see its none of the above. Clove is dangling a foot off the ground, imprisoned in Threshs arms. I let out a gasp,

seeing him like that, towering over me, holding Clove like a rag doll. I remember him as big, but he seems more massive, more powerful than I even recall. If anything, he seems to have gained weight in the arena. He flips

Clove around and flings her onto the ground. When he shouts, I jump, never having heard him speak above a mutter. Whatd you do to that little girl? You kill her? Clove is scrambling backward on all fours, like a frantic insect, too shocked to even call for Cato. No! No, it wasnt me! You said her name. I heard you. You kill her? Another thought brings a fresh wave of rage to his features. You cut her up like you were going to cut up this girl here? No! No, I Clove sees the stone, about the size of a small loaf of bread in Threshs hand and loses it. Cato! she screeches. Cato! Clove! I hear Catos answer, but hes too far away, I can tell that much, to do her any good. What was he doing? Trying to get Foxface or Peeta? Or had he been lying in wait for Thresh and just badly misjudged his location? Thresh brings the rock down hard against Cloves temple. Its not bleeding, but I can see the dent in her skull and I know that shes a goner. Theres still life in her now though, in the rapid rise and fall of her

